### Introduction

**Overview:** The RSVP Expertise study was designed to measure sustained vigilance in realistic settings by having subjects perform a rapid visual target detection task. The task was performed in conjunction with two other tasks a calibration driving task and a baseline driving task. The data collected for the two driving tasks is not included in this dataset. Another study (RSVP Baseline) not included in this collection had a similar set-up but a different experimental design and a different subject pool. In the RSVP Baseline study the target object varied between blocks. In the RSVP Expertise study the same target object was used for all blocks. Additionally, the RSVP Expertise was designed as a longitudinal study, providing, several same-subject datasets for the same task. Further information is available on request from [cancta.net](https://cancta.net).


### Methods   

**Subjects:** volunteers from the local community recruited through advertisements. 
 
**Apparatus:**  Driving simulator with steering wheel and brake / foot pedals (Real Time Technologies; Dearborn, MI); Video Refresh Rate (VRR) = 900 Hz; Vehicle data log file Sampling Rate (SR) = 100 Hz); EEG (BioSemi 256 (+8) channel systems with 4 eye and 2 mastoid channels recorded; SR=1024 Hz); Eye Tracking (Sensomotoric Instruments (SMI); REDEYE250).   

**Initial setup:** Upon arrival to the lab, subjects were given an introduction to the primary study for which they were recruited and provided informed consent and provided demographics information. This was followed by a practice session, to acclimate the subject to the driving simulator. The driving practice task lasted 10-15 min, until asymptotic performance in steering and speed control was demonstrated and lack of motion sickness was reported. Subjects were then outfitted and prepped for eye tracking and EEG acquisition. 

**Task organization:** Subjects always began recording sessions by performing a Calibration Driving task, which was a 15-minute drive where the subject controlled only the steering (and speed was controlled by the simulator). Following this, subjects would perform the Baseline Driving task and the RSVPThis task consisted of a rapid presentation of color photographs (512 x 662 pixels) of indoor and outdoor scenes. The images were presented at 5 Hz (200 ms per image) and subtended a visual angle of approximately 9°. Every 10 seconds a blank screen with the word “blink” was presented to give participants a chance to blink without missing stimuli. The RSVP task consisted of 6 blocks of 10 minutes each (to mirror the driving task). All scenes contained only inanimate objects and were manually scaled and cropped. Some scenes contained target objects and others did not. task, with counter-balancing used across subjects as to which of them came first. The Baseline Driving run was 60 minutes of driving, performed in 6 blocks of 10 minutes each, with subjects responsible for speed and steering control. The Calibration and Baseline driving tasks were conducted on the same simulated long, straight road in a visually sparse environment. The subject was instructed to stay within the boundaries of the right-most lane, and to drive at the posted speed limits. The vehicle was periodically subject to lateral perturbing forces, which could be applied to either side of the vehicle, pushing the vehicle out of the center of the lane; and the subject was instructed to execute corrective steering actions to return the vehicle to the center of the lane. 

**RSVP Expertise task details:** This task consisted of a rapid presentation of color photographs (512 x 662 pixels) of indoor and outdoor scenes. The images were presented at 5 Hz (200 ms per image) and subtended a visual angle of approximately 9°. Every 10 seconds a blank screen with the word “blink” was presented to give participants a chance to blink without missing stimuli. The RSVP task consisted of 6 blocks of 10 minutes each (to mirror the driving task). All scenes contained only inanimate objects and were manually scaled and cropped. Some scenes contained target objects and others did not. The target classes for this experiment were: stair, container, poster, chair, and door. One of the aforementioned objects was designated as the target for all six blocks, and images of the remaining objects were used as distractors. During the RSVP, participants were instructed to press a button only when they saw an object from the current target class. Target probability also varied across each block. Six target probability values (0.01, 0.03, 0.05, 0.07, 0.09 and 0.11), one for each block, were randomly assigned at the beginning of the task. For a subject's four remaining data collection sessions, each individual would return on a different day at roughly the same time of day for each study and begin with the Calibration Driving task. And for each of the five RSVP Expertise recording sessions, a different target was designated, and used for all 6 image presentation blocks in the task.


**Independent variables:** Target types (chairs, containers, doors, posters, stairs), target probability values (0.01, 0.03, 0.05, 0.07, 0.09 and 0.11)

**Dependent variables:** Target reporting accuracy and reaction times, Task-Induced Fatigue Scale (TIFS), Karolinska Sleepiness Scale (KSS), Visual Analog Scale of Fatigue (VAS-F).  Note: questionnaire data is available upon request from [cancta.net](https://cancta.net).

**Additional data acquired:** Participant Enrollment Questionnaire, Subject Questionnaire for Current Session, Simulator Sickness Questionnaire.  

**Experimental Location:** Science Applications International Corporation, Louisville, CO

